# 1. Introduction to Git 🤪

#### What is Git? 🤔
Git is knows as Version Control system.

#### What is version control system?

VCS is software that **tracks & manages changes ** to files over time.  


**Version Control Role**

Version Control systems generally allow user to revisit earlier version of the files, compare changes between version, undo changes, and a whole lot more.

## Git help us.. 😌
- Track changes across multiple files.
- Compare versions of a project.
- " Time travel " back to old versions.
- Revert to a previous version.
- Collaborate and share changes.
- Combine changes

## History of Git 💦

 ***Linus Torvalds*** is  a legendary software engineer. He is the creator and main developer debing Linux and Git.
 
 In 2005, while working on Linux, he became frustrated with the available version control systems. The existing tools were slow, closed-source, and usually paid.
 
 ### The Birth of Git 🤖
 Torvalds wanted a version control system that was super and free, unlike the existing tools.
 
 On April 3rd 2005 he got to work on his own VCS, which would become Git. In a matter of days he had most basic functionality done.
 
 The first official Git release came a couple months later. 15 years later in 2020, over 90% of developers worldwide use Git on a daily basis!
 
 
 ### Who uses Git? 😎
 
 **Engineers & Coders**
 From massive tech giants like Facebook and Google to the tinest of startups, developers across the globe use Git. If you plan on becoming a developer, Git is a must-have skill.
 
 **Tech-Adjacent Roles**
 
 Many people in non-developer roles end up learning the basic of Git to collaborate with their coworkers. Designers in particular often need to work with Git.
 
 **Governments**
 
 In recent years, governments have started using Git to manage the drafting of laws. Washington DC City council uses Git & Github to publish its laws. Citizen have even found and fixed typos collaboratively using Git!
 
 **Scientists**
 
Git is commonly used  by research teams at universities and agencies around the world to mange code, data sets, and more. Git + Github is especially powerful in the peer-reviewed world of science and research.

**Writers**

Some writers love using Git to mange drafts of complex novels, screenplays, or other works with lots of moving pars and constant changes across multiple files.
In particular, Git is gaining popularity for use in collaborative text book writing with multiple authors.

**Anyone Really**

People find very creative uses of Git ranging from keeping daily diary to drafting PhD theses to tracking changes to photoshop files. At lease one composer writes his symphonies using Git!

## Git Vs. Github 😱
**Git:** is the version control software that runs locally on your machine. You don't need to register for an account. You don't need the internet to use it. You can use Git without ever touching Github

**Github:** is a service that host Git repositories in the cloud and make it easier to collaborate with other people. You do need to sign up for an account to use Github. It's an online place to share work that is done using Git.
