## ðŸ¤“ Git is (Primarily) A Terminal Tool

Git was created as  command-line tool. To use it, we run various git commands in a Unix shell. Ths is not the most user friendly experience, but it's at the very core of Git!

## ðŸ¤š The Rise of GUI's

Over the last few years, companies have created graphical user interfaces for Git that allow people to use Git without having to be a command-line expert.

### ã€½ï¸ GUI Clients

**Pros**
- Way lower barrier-of-entry for beginners compared to the command-line.
- Friendlier to use. Can be much better experience (when it works).
- Some people prefer the visual experience, even those who can use the command-line

**Cons**
- At time, there is lots of "magic" involved. The inner-working of Git are obfuscated and hidden away with GUI's.
- Often leads to dependance on a particualr piece of software.
- When things go seriously wrong, It can be very challenging to fix without the command-line.
- The interfaces, button and menus vary between different GUI's.

### ðŸ–¥ï¸ The Command Line 

**Pros**
- Git is a command-line tool. All the documentation and resources online will refer to the command-line.
- The command-line can be way faster once you get comfortable with it!
- Some of the more advanced Git features are only available on the command-line.
- The commands are always the same, no matter what machine you are on!

**Cons**
- Not beginner-friendly. At all. Can be difficult ot learn and remember the commands at first.
- Even for some practiced users, the command-line interface is just not a good experience. It's really a matter of preference.


## ðŸ˜¤ Configuring Git

Now that Git is hopefully installed, it's time to configure some basic information. You do not need to register for an account or anything, but you will need to provide:
- your name
- your email
If you are using a GUI, it should prompt you for name and email for the first time you open the app.

## Configure GIT
To configure the name the Git will associate with your work, run this command:
> git config --global user.name "Tshering"

To check user name
> git config user.name

**email**
Do the same thing for your email using the following command. Then we get to Github, you'll want your Git email address to match your Github account.

> git config --global user.email tshering@admin.com
