## 😉 Repository
**A Fit "Repo" is a workspace which tracks and manages fiels within a folder**

Anytime we want to use GIt with a project, app, etc we need to crea a new git repository. We can have as many repos on our machine as needed, all with separate histories and contents.

## 🤫 Our first Git Command!

`git status` gives information on the current status of a git repository and its contents.

It's very useful, but at the moment we don't actually have any repos to check the status of!

## 😜 Our Actual First Git Command

Use `git init`to create a new git repository. Before we can do anything git-related, we must initialize a repo first!

This is something you do once per project. Initialize the repo in the top-level folder containing your project. 

## What actually `git init` do?

It creates an empty GIt repository - basically `.git` directory with subdirectories. It is actually hidden. 
> If delete `.git` entire history will be deleted.

> **WARNING: DO NOT INIT A REPO INSIDE A REPO!** Before running `git init`, use `git status` to verify that you are not currently inside of a repo.


## Adding

`git add` stage all the changes at once.

> You can use `git add "and file name"` , `git add filename filemane2` or `git add .` (it will add all the files at once).

## Committing
The most important Git feature!

**What is commit ?**
Is one of the checkpoints or snapshot of project changes with message and time in git repositories.  

### The Basic Git Workflow
1. Work on stuff: make new files, edit, delete files etc.
2. Add changes: Group specific changes together, in preparation of committing.
3. Commit: Commit everything that was previously added.

## Git Commit

**We use the `git commit` command to actually commit changes from the staging area.**

When making a commit, we need to provide a commit message that summarizes the changes and work snapshotted in the commit.

**Git Commit**

> git commit

Running `git commit` will commit all staged changes. it also open up a text editor (default text editor) and prompts you for a commit message.
This can be overwhelming when you'are starting out, so instead you can use...

**Git Commit with message**

> git commit -m "my message"

The -m flag allows us to pass in an inline commit message, rather than launching a text editor.

