## âš›ï¸ Atomic Commits 

> Keep your code atomic

When possible, a commit should encompass a single feature, change, or fix. In other words, try to **keep each commit focused on a single thing**.

This makes it much easier to undo or rollback changes later on. It also makes your code or project easier to review.

## ðŸ““ Writing Commit Messages
**Present or past tense? Does it really matter**
> The Git docs suggest using present-tense imperative messages, many developers prefer to use past-tense messages. All that matter is consistency, especially when working on a team with many people are making commits.

## Git log
Shows the commit logs

> Some times git commit messages are long and it takes much space so to reduce it and make it simpler we use `git log --oneline`. Oneline  is a shorthand for "--pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit" used together. For more information visit: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log

## Amending Commits

Suppose you just made a commit and then realize you forgot to include a file! Or, maybe you made a typo in the commit message that you want to correct.

Rather than making a brand new separate commit, you can "redo" the previous commit using the `--amend option`

> `git commit -m "some commit message"`
> `git add forgettten_file`
> `git commit --amend`

## Git ignore (Ignoring Files)

We can tell Git which files and directories to ignore in a given repository, using a `.gitignore` file.
This is useful for files you know NEVER want to commit including:
- Secrets, API keys, credentials, etc.
- Operating System files (.DS_Store on Mac)
- Log files.
- Dependencies & packages

## .gitignore
Create a file called `.gitignore` in the root of a repository. Inside the file, we can write patterns to tell Git which files & folders to ignore:
-	.DS_Store will ignore files named .DS_Store
-	folderName / will ignore an entire directory
-	`*.log` will ignore any files with the .log extension.  

**One important site for ignoring file is `gitignore.io`**
