## Contexts 
On large projects, we often work in multiple contexts:
1. You're working on 2 different color scheme variations for your website at the same time, unsure of which you like best.
2. You're also trying to fix a horrible bug, but it's procing tough to solve. You need to really hunt around and toggle some code on and off to figure it out.
3. A teammate is also working on adding a new chat widget to present at the next meeting. It's unclear if your company will end up using it.
4. Another coworker is updating the search bar autocomplete.
5. 5. Another developer is doing an experimental radical design Overhaul of the entire layout to present next month. 

## Head
We'll often come across the term **HEAD** in Git.

HEAD is simply a pointer that refers to the current "location" in your repository. It points to a particular branch reference.

So far, HEAD always points to the latest commit you made on the master branch, but soon we'wll see that we can move around and HEAD will change!

## Branches
Branches are an essential part of Git!

Thick of branches as alternative timelines for a project.

They enable us to create separate contexts where we can try new things. or even work on multiple ideas in parallel.

**If we make changes on one branch, they do not impact the other branches (unless we merge the changes).**

## The Master Branch
In git, we are always working on a branch. The default branch name is **master**.

It doesn't do anything special or have fancy powers. It's just like any other branch.

## Master

Many people designate the master branch as their "source of truth" or the "official branch" for their codebase, but that is left to you to decide.

From Git's perspective, the master branch is just like any other branch. It does not have to hold the "master copy" of your project.

> Master ? Main?
> In 2020, Github renamed the default branch form **master** to **main**. the default Git branch name is still **master**, though the Git team is exploring a potential change. 

## Creating Branches

use **git branch (branch-name)** to make new branch based upon the current HEAD.

This just creates the branch. It does not switch you to that branch (the HEAD stays the same).
> `> git branch <branch-name>`

## Switching Branches

Once you have created a new branch, use **git switch (branch-name)** to switch to it.
> `>git switch <branch-name>`

## Another way of switching??

historically, we used **git checkout (branch-name)** to switch branches. This still works.

The **checkout** command does a million additional things, so the decision was made to add a standalone switch command which is much simpler.

You will see older tutorials and docs using checkout rather than switch. Both now work.
> `>git checkout <branch-name>`

## Creating & Switching

Use **git-switch** with the **-c** flag to create new branch AND switch to it all in one go.

Remember -c as short for "create"

> `> git switch -c <branch-name>`

## Deleting
> `> git switch -d <branch-name>`

or 
> `git switch -D <branch-name>` by force.

> NOTE: You need to change branch to other branch while deleting the branch.

## Moving/Renaming Branch
> `> git swtich -m <branch-name>` it will rename branch in which branch you are.